Scanning for NFS shares
Both Portmapper and RPCbind
run on TCP port 111.
RPCbind maps RPC services to
the ports on which they listen.
RPC processes notify rpcbind
when they start,
registering the ports
they are listening on
and the RPC program numbers
they expect to serve.
The client system then contacts
rpcbind on the server
with a particular RPC program number.
The rpcbind service redirects the
client to the proper port number
(often TCP port 2049)
so it can communicate
with the requested service.
We can use nmap to scan for TCP port 111
and run the rpcinfo NSE script
on each server
to find services that may
have registered with rpcbind.
Next we’ll find out how to
make use of this information.